Update customer-key-manage.md (#10078)
MicrosoftDocs/microsoft-365-docs: microsoft-365/compliance/customer-key-manage.md

- [Risk Assessment and Compliance Guide for Financial Institutions in the Microsoft Cloud](https://servicetrust.microsoft.com/ViewPage/TrustDocuments?command=Download&downloadType=Document&downloadId=edee9b14-3661-4a16-ba83-c35caf672bd7&docTab=6d000410-c9e9-11e7-9a91-892aae8839ad_FAQ_and_White_Papers)

- [O365 Exit Planning Considerations](---
title: "Manage Customer Key"
ms.author: krowley
author: kccross
manager: laurawi
audience: ITPro
ms.topic: article
ms.service: O365-seccomp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
search.appverid:
- MET150
ms.collection:
- purview-compliance
- tier1

> description: "After you set up Customer Key, learn how to manage it by restoring AKV keys, and managing permissions and creating and assigning data encryption policies."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "After you set up Customer Key, learn how to manage it by restoring AKV keys, managing permissions, and creating and assigning data encryption policies."
```

---

# Manage Customer Key

> After you've set up Customer Key, you'll need to create and assign one or more data encryption policies (DEP). Once you've assigned your DEPs, you can manage your keys as described in this article. Learn more about Customer Key in the related topics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you've set up Customer Key, you'll need to create and assign one or more data encryption policies (DEPs). Once you've assigned your DEPs, you can manage your keys as described in this article. Learn more about Customer Key in the related topics.
```

To create a multi-workload DEP, follow these steps:

1. On your local computer, using a work or school account that has global administrator or compliance admin permissions in your organization, [connect to Exchange Online PowerShell](/powershell/exchange/connect-to-exchange-online-powershell).

2. To create a DEP, use the New-M365DataAtRestEncryptionPolicy cmdlet.

   ```powershell
   New-M365DataAtRestEncryptionPolicy -Name <PolicyName> -AzureKeyIDs <KeyVaultURI1, KeyVaultURI2> [-Description <String>]
   ```

   Where:

   - *PolicyName* is the name you want to use for the policy. Names can't contain spaces. For example, Contoso_Global.

   - *KeyVaultURI1* is the URI for the first key in the policy. For example, `https://contosoWestUSvault1.vault.azure.net/keys/Key_01`.

   - *KeyVaultURI2* is the URI for the second key in the policy. For example, `https://contosoCentralUSvault1.vault.azure.net/keys/Key_02`. Separate the two URIs by a comma and a space.

>    - *Policy Description* is a user-friendly description of the policy that will help you remember what the policy is for. You can include spaces in the description. For example, "Root policy for multiple workloads for all users in the tenant.".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - *Policy Description* is a user-friendly description of the policy that will help you remember what the policy is for. You can include spaces in the description. For example, "Root policy for multiple workloads for all users in the tenant".
```

```

To remove an administrator's permissions, run the Remove-AzKeyVaultAccessPolicy cmdlet:

```powershell
Remove-AzKeyVaultAccessPolicy -VaultName <vault name> -UserPrincipalName <UPN of user>
```

For example:

```powershell
Remove-AzKeyVaultAccessPolicy -VaultName Contoso-O365EX-NA-VaultA1 -UserPrincipalName alice@contoso.com
```

## Roll back from Customer Key to Microsoft managed Keys

If you need to revert to Microsoft-managed keys, you can. When you offboard, your data is re-encrypted using default encryption supported by each individual workload. For example, Exchange Online supports default encryption using Microsoft-managed keys.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Offboarding is not the same as a data purge. A data purge permanently crypto-deletes your organization's data from Microsoft 365, offboarding does not. You can't perform a data purge for a multiple workload policy.

**If you decide not to use Customer Key for assigning multi-workload DEPs anymore then you'll need to file a support ticket using your Microsoft admin portal and provide the following details in your request:**

1. Tenant FQDN
2. Tenant contact for offboarding request
3. Reason for offboarding

> 4. Include a note in the service ticket that the request should be directed to the M365 Customer Key team and include the incident #

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Include a note in the service ticket that the request should be directed to the Microsoft 365 Customer Key team and include the incident number
```

You must still retain your Customer Key AKVs and encryption keys with proper permissions for data to be rewrapped using Microsoft managed keys. Please reach out to m365-ck@service.microsoft.com if you have any questions.

If you do not want to encrypt individual mailboxes using mailbox level DEPs anymore, then you can unassign mailbox level DEPs from all your mailboxes.

To unassign mailbox DEPs, use the Set-Mailbox PowerShell cmdlet.

1. Using a work or school account that has global administrator permissions in your organization, [connect to Exchange Online PowerShell](/powershell/exchange/connect-to-exchange-online-powershell).

2. Run the Set-Mailbox cmdlet.

   ```powershell
   Set-Mailbox -Identity <mailbox> -DataEncryptionPolicy $null
   ```

> Running this cmdlet unassigns the currently assigned DEP and reencrypts the mailbox using the DEP associated with default Microsoft-managed keys. You can't unassign the DEP used by Microsoft managed keys. If you don't want to use Microsoft-managed keys, you can assign another Customer Key DEP to the mailbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running this cmdlet unassigns the currently assigned DEP and re-encrypts the mailbox using the DEP associated with default Microsoft-managed keys. You can't unassign the DEP used by Microsoft-managed keys. If you don't want to use Microsoft-managed keys, you can assign another Customer Key DEP to the mailbox.
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Roll back from Customer Key to Microsoft managed keys isn't supported for SharePoint Online, OneDrive for Business, and Teams files.

## Revoke your keys and start the data purge path process

You control the revocation of all root keys including the availability key. Customer Key provides control of the exit planning aspect of the regulatory requirements for you. If you decide to revoke your keys to purge your data and exit the service, the service deletes the availability key once the data purge process completes. This is supported for Customer Key DEPs that are assigned to individual mailboxes.

> Microsoft 365 audits and validates the data purge path. For more information, see the SSAE 18 SOC 2 Report available on the [Service Trust Portal](https://servicetrust.microsoft.com/). In addition, Microsoft recommends the following documents:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Microsoft 365 audits and validates the data purge path. For more information, see the SSAE 18 SOC 2 Report available on the [Service Trust Portal](https://servicetrust.microsoft.com/). In addition, we recommend the following documents:
```

- [Risk Assessment and Compliance Guide for Financial Institutions in the Microsoft Cloud](https://servicetrust.microsoft.com/ViewPage/TrustDocuments?command=Download&downloadType=Document&downloadId=edee9b14-3661-4a16-ba83-c35caf672bd7&docTab=6d000410-c9e9-11e7-9a91-892aae8839ad_FAQ_and_White_Papers)

- [O365 Exit Planning Considerations](---
title: "Manage Customer Key"
ms.author: krowley
author: kccross
manager: laurawi
audience: ITPro
ms.topic: article
ms.service: O365-seccomp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
search.appverid:
- MET150
ms.collection:
- purview-compliance
- tier1

> description: "After you set up Customer Key, learn how to manage it by restoring AKV keys, and managing permissions and creating and assigning data encryption policies."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "After you set up Customer Key, learn how to manage it by restoring AKV keys, managing permissions, and creating and assigning data encryption policies."
```

---

# Manage Customer Key

> After you've set up Customer Key, you'll need to create and assign one or more data encryption policies (DEP). Once you've assigned your DEPs, you can manage your keys as described in this article. Learn more about Customer Key in the related topics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you've set up Customer Key, you'll need to create and assign one or more data encryption policies (DEPs). Once you've assigned your DEPs, you can manage your keys as described in this article. Learn more about Customer Key in the related topics.
```

> After you've set up Customer Key, you'll need to create and assign one or more data encryption policies (DEP). Once you've assigned your DEPs, you can manage your keys as described in this article. Learn more about Customer Key in the related topics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you've set up Customer Key, you'll need to create and assign one or more data encryption policies (DEPs). Once you've assigned your DEPs, you can manage your keys as described in this article. Learn more about Customer Key in the related topics.
```

To create a multi-workload DEP, follow these steps:

1. On your local computer, using a work or school account that has global administrator or compliance admin permissions in your organization, [connect to Exchange Online PowerShell](/powershell/exchange/connect-to-exchange-online-powershell).

2. To create a DEP, use the New-M365DataAtRestEncryptionPolicy cmdlet.

   ```powershell
   New-M365DataAtRestEncryptionPolicy -Name <PolicyName> -AzureKeyIDs <KeyVaultURI1, KeyVaultURI2> [-Description <String>]
   ```

   Where:

   - *PolicyName* is the name you want to use for the policy. Names can't contain spaces. For example, Contoso_Global.

   - *KeyVaultURI1* is the URI for the first key in the policy. For example, `https://contosoWestUSvault1.vault.azure.net/keys/Key_01`.

   - *KeyVaultURI2* is the URI for the second key in the policy. For example, `https://contosoCentralUSvault1.vault.azure.net/keys/Key_02`. Separate the two URIs by a comma and a space.

>    - *Policy Description* is a user-friendly description of the policy that will help you remember what the policy is for. You can include spaces in the description. For example, "Root policy for multiple workloads for all users in the tenant.".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - *Policy Description* is a user-friendly description of the policy that will help you remember what the policy is for. You can include spaces in the description. For example, "Root policy for multiple workloads for all users in the tenant".
```

```

To remove an administrator's permissions, run the Remove-AzKeyVaultAccessPolicy cmdlet:

```powershell
Remove-AzKeyVaultAccessPolicy -VaultName <vault name> -UserPrincipalName <UPN of user>
```

For example:

```powershell
Remove-AzKeyVaultAccessPolicy -VaultName Contoso-O365EX-NA-VaultA1 -UserPrincipalName alice@contoso.com
```

## Roll back from Customer Key to Microsoft managed Keys

If you need to revert to Microsoft-managed keys, you can. When you offboard, your data is re-encrypted using default encryption supported by each individual workload. For example, Exchange Online supports default encryption using Microsoft-managed keys.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Offboarding is not the same as a data purge. A data purge permanently crypto-deletes your organization's data from Microsoft 365, offboarding does not. You can't perform a data purge for a multiple workload policy.

**If you decide not to use Customer Key for assigning multi-workload DEPs anymore then you'll need to file a support ticket using your Microsoft admin portal and provide the following details in your request:**

1. Tenant FQDN
2. Tenant contact for offboarding request
3. Reason for offboarding

> 4. Include a note in the service ticket that the request should be directed to the M365 Customer Key team and include the incident #

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Include a note in the service ticket that the request should be directed to the Microsoft 365 Customer Key team and include the incident number
```

You must still retain your Customer Key AKVs and encryption keys with proper permissions for data to be rewrapped using Microsoft managed keys. Please reach out to m365-ck@service.microsoft.com if you have any questions.

If you do not want to encrypt individual mailboxes using mailbox level DEPs anymore, then you can unassign mailbox level DEPs from all your mailboxes.

To unassign mailbox DEPs, use the Set-Mailbox PowerShell cmdlet.

1. Using a work or school account that has global administrator permissions in your organization, [connect to Exchange Online PowerShell](/powershell/exchange/connect-to-exchange-online-powershell).

2. Run the Set-Mailbox cmdlet.

   ```powershell
   Set-Mailbox -Identity <mailbox> -DataEncryptionPolicy $null
   ```

> Running this cmdlet unassigns the currently assigned DEP and reencrypts the mailbox using the DEP associated with default Microsoft-managed keys. You can't unassign the DEP used by Microsoft managed keys. If you don't want to use Microsoft-managed keys, you can assign another Customer Key DEP to the mailbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running this cmdlet unassigns the currently assigned DEP and re-encrypts the mailbox using the DEP associated with default Microsoft-managed keys. You can't unassign the DEP used by Microsoft-managed keys. If you don't want to use Microsoft-managed keys, you can assign another Customer Key DEP to the mailbox.
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Roll back from Customer Key to Microsoft managed keys isn't supported for SharePoint Online, OneDrive for Business, and Teams files.

## Revoke your keys and start the data purge path process

You control the revocation of all root keys including the availability key. Customer Key provides control of the exit planning aspect of the regulatory requirements for you. If you decide to revoke your keys to purge your data and exit the service, the service deletes the availability key once the data purge process completes. This is supported for Customer Key DEPs that are assigned to individual mailboxes.

> Microsoft 365 audits and validates the data purge path. For more information, see the SSAE 18 SOC 2 Report available on the [Service Trust Portal](https://servicetrust.microsoft.com/). In addition, Microsoft recommends the following documents:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Microsoft 365 audits and validates the data purge path. For more information, see the SSAE 18 SOC 2 Report available on the [Service Trust Portal](https://servicetrust.microsoft.com/). In addition, we recommend the following documents:
```

### Revoke your Customer Keys and the availability key for Exchange Online and Skype for Business

When you initiate the data purge path for Exchange Online and Skype for Business, you set a permanent data purge request on a DEP. Doing so permanently deletes encrypted data within the mailboxes to which that DEP is assigned.

Since you can only run the PowerShell cmdlet against one DEP at a time, consider reassigning a single DEP to all of your mailboxes before you initiate the data purge path.

> [!WARNING]
> Do not use the data purge path to delete a subset of your mailboxes. This process is only intended for customers who are exiting the service.

To initiate the data purge path, complete these steps:

> 1. Remove wrap and unwrap permissions for "O365 Exchange Online" from Azure Key Vaults.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Remove wrap and unwrap permissions for "Office 365 Exchange Online" from Azure Key Vaults.
```

### Revoke your Customer Keys and the availability key for SharePoint Online, OneDrive for Business, and Teams files

Purging of SharePoint, OneDrive for work or school, and Teams files DEPs is not supported in Customer Key. These multi-workload DEPs are used to encrypt data across multiple workloads across all tenant users. Purging such a DEP would result in data from across multiple workloads becoming inaccessible. If you decide to exit Microsoft 365 services altogether, you could pursue the path of tenant deletion per the documented process. See how to [delete a tenant in Azure Active Directory](/azure/active-directory/enterprise-users/directory-delete-howto).

## Related articles

- [Service encryption with Microsoft Purview Customer Key](customer-key-overview.md)

- [Learn about the availability key](customer-key-availability-key-understand.md)

- [Set up Customer Key](customer-key-set-up.md)

- [Roll or rotate a Customer Key or an availability key](customer-key-availability-key-roll.md)

- [Customer Lockbox](customer-lockbox-requests.md)

- [Service Encryption](office-365-service-encryption.md))

> Purging of multi-workload DEP is not supported for Customer Key. The multi-workload DEP is used to encrypt data across multiple workloads across all tenant users. Purging such DEP would result into data from across multiple workloads become inaccessible. If you decide to exit Microsoft 365 services altogether then you could pursue the path of tenant deletion per the documented process. See [how to delete a tenant in Azure Active Directory](/azure/active-directory/enterprise-users/directory-delete-howto).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Purging of a multi-workload DEP is not supported for Customer Key. The multi-workload DEP is used to encrypt data across multiple workloads across all tenant users. Purging such DEP would result in data from across multiple workloads becoming inaccessible. If you decide to exit Microsoft 365 services altogether then you could pursue the path of tenant deletion per the documented process. See [how to delete a tenant in Azure Active Directory](/azure/active-directory/enterprise-users/directory-delete-howto).
```

### Revoke your Customer Keys and the availability key for Exchange Online and Skype for Business

When you initiate the data purge path for Exchange Online and Skype for Business, you set a permanent data purge request on a DEP. Doing so permanently deletes encrypted data within the mailboxes to which that DEP is assigned.

Since you can only run the PowerShell cmdlet against one DEP at a time, consider reassigning a single DEP to all of your mailboxes before you initiate the data purge path.

> [!WARNING]
> Do not use the data purge path to delete a subset of your mailboxes. This process is only intended for customers who are exiting the service.

To initiate the data purge path, complete these steps:

> 1. Remove wrap and unwrap permissions for "O365 Exchange Online" from Azure Key Vaults.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Remove wrap and unwrap permissions for "Office 365 Exchange Online" from Azure Key Vaults.
```

2. Using a work or school account that has global administrator privileges in your organization, [connect to Exchange Online PowerShell](/powershell/exchange/connect-to-exchange-online-powershell).

> 3. For each DEP that contains mailboxes that you want to delete, run the [Set-DataEncryptionPolicy](/powershell/module/exchange/set-dataencryptionpolicy) cmdlet as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. For each DEP that contains mailboxes that you want to delete, run the [Set-DataEncryptionPolicy](/powershell/module/exchange/set-dataencryptionpolicy) cmdlet as follows:
```
